README.md, before:

# ADTRAN Firmware Upgrader

A Python utility for upgrading firmware on ADTRAN devices(specifically designed for 834 v6) via SSH.

## Features

- Automated firmware upgrade process
- SSH-based device communication
- Progress monitoring
- Automatic IP detection and connection
- WiFi configuration retrieval

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)
- SSH access to the ADTRAN device

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/adtranfirmwareupgrader.git
cd adtranfirmwareupgrader
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows, use: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Create a `.env` file in the project root with your device credentials:
```bash
# SSH Credentials for ADTRAN Device
INITIAL_USERNAME=initial_username
INITIAL_PASSWORD=initial_password
UPGRADED_USERNAME=new_username
UPGRADED_PASSWORD=new_password
```

## Usage

1. Place your firmware image file in the project directory
2. Run the script:
```bash
python adtranfirmwareupgrader.py
```
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the upgrade process

## Security Notes

- Use an `.env` file contains sensitive credentials and should never be committed to version control
- Make sure to use strong passwords for your device
- Keep your firmware files secure and verify their integrity before use

## License

[Your chosen license]

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Add firmware selection options to enhance user experience
- Implemented a terminal menu for selecting firmware files from the 'firmware_images' directory or entering a custom file path.
- Improved error handling for missing directories and files.
- Updated README to reflect changes in firmware file management and usage instructions.

README.md, after:

# ADTRAN Firmware Upgrader

A Python utility for upgrading firmware on ADTRAN devices(specifically designed for 834 v6) via SSH.

## Features

- Automated firmware upgrade process
- SSH-based device communication
- Progress monitoring
- Automatic IP detection and connection
- WiFi configuration retrieval

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)
- SSH access to the ADTRAN device

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/adtranfirmwareupgrader.git
cd adtranfirmwareupgrader
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows, use: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Create a `.env` file in the project root with your device credentials:
```bash
# SSH Credentials for ADTRAN Device
INITIAL_USERNAME=initial_username
INITIAL_PASSWORD=initial_password
UPGRADED_USERNAME=new_username
UPGRADED_PASSWORD=new_password
```

## Usage

1. Place your firmware image files in the firmware_images directory
2. Run the script:
```bash
python main.py
```
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the firmware upgrade process or extract device information
